# Changelog
This file simply list the progression of patches in this minor version.


## 0.2.0
+ Modified `Animal.move()` to set a new destination if the current one is reached and added an alternative `Animal.moveToDest()` which moves toward the destination and does not set a new one.
+ `Animal::getSpriteFolder()` and `Animal::getSpriteBase()` are now static constants instead of static methods and got renamed to `Animal::spriteFolder` and `Animal::spriteBase`.
+ The destination threshold of `Animal.isAtDest()` is now easily customisable and is dependant of the speed of the animal.
+ Created the `Dog` class and added sprites.
+ Modified .gitignore to include templates for creating new Cat and Dog sprites.
+ Cleaning images.cpp before adding new headers in imgToHex

## 0.2.1
+ New type `mask_t` added, it represents a filter function that decides whether or not a path should be chosen.
+ Multiplied by 5 the size of imgsToHex by adding new features:
+ Images.hpp is now generated by imgToHex.
+ Created new function `getBetween()` that get the content between two characters.
+ Creating the hexDump folder if not already present so this project is finally buildable from source.
+ 	Using nested loops to count files.

+ Fixed a really dumb bug in PRNG.
+ Renamed `howManyFiles(fs::path)` to `howManyRegularFiles()`.
+ Simplified the mask of `Animal.setToRandomSprite()` and children classes.
+ Refactored sprite copying in main.cpp (created `saveImgs()`).
+ Created `waitEvent()` and `waitKeyPress()` to simplify step by step mode
+ Renamed many sprites to fit the name pattern.
+ Made a few changes to the doc.

## 0.2.2
+ Imported colors as submodule.
+ Implemented Argument-Parser.
+ Added a wrapper script for installing submodules.

## 0.2.2 bis
+ Vector is now an aggregate type
+ Disabled RNG initialization.
+ This file has been renamed and is now a markdown file.

## 0.2.3
+ Added the `Hitbox` struct and a few tests.
+ Image.hpp is now only included by Animal.hpp
+ Renamed `Vector::fromPoint()` to `Vector::fromPoints()`

## 0.2.4
+ **big changes**:
	1. Added a hitbox to animals.
	2. New parameter `--follow-mouse`.
	3. Improved debug compilation
	4. Fixed a lot of bugs relative to the `.w` and `.h` members of `SDL_Rect`s.


+ Changes for the `Animal` class:
	- Added a hitbox to animals.
	- Renamed `setRandDest()` to `setDestRand()` and made it protected.
	- Added `setMouseDest()`.
	- In the header, contructors's declarations have now the `noexcept(false)` attribute to match their definition.
	- `move()` takes now one falcutative boolean parameter which tells if the destination should be generated randomly or if it should be the position of the mouse.
	- Added new getter `getHitbox()`.
	- Added an argument to `draw()` which tells the method if the animal collides with another.
	- All constructors now redirect to the one with 3 parameters.
	- Fixed interger overflow in `increaseSize()` and `increaseSpeed()`.
	- Randomly generated destinations have a new minimum of `size/2` to prevent hitbox mismatching the sprite.
	- The arrow representing the speed vector is now half less long so it feels more like $\frac{1}{2}$ of a second.
	- Fixed a memory leak in `draw()`.
	- Better `string()` method.

+ Changes to `Cat`:
	- Removed `pushThis()` and `pushCat()` because they were useless.
	- Fixed an error where the destructor were defaulted and didn't remove the deleted cat from `catList` leaving a dangling pointer which couldn't be reallocated.
	- When `catList` is full, throws a warning rather than an error.
	- Improved `string()` method.

+ Changes to `Dog`:
	- Added a `string()` method.
	- Added a `nodiscard` attribute to the constructor.

+ Changes to `Hitbox`:
	- Added an empty constructor `Hitbox(void)`.
	- Renamed `calcPos()` to `calcCenter()`.
	- Added a `translate()` method which translates the hitbox with a vector.
	- Added new aliases `vectorToRect()` and `vectorToFRect()` to `rectFromVector()` and `frectFromVector()`.
	- Added a new function `getSquare(int|float, Pos)` which create a square (with type `SDL_Rect` or `SDLFRect`) of given side length at a given position.

+ Changes to `Pos`:
	- Included `Warning.hpp`.

+ Changes to `Utilities.hpp`:
	- Removed `SDL_RectInit()` since the brace initializer has the same purpose and doesn't use `malloc()` with no reason.

+ Changes to `Vector`:
	- Included `Warning.hpp`
	- Added check for zero in `unit()`.
	- Changed the formatting in `string()` to differenciate vectors from points.

+ Changes to `Warning`:
	- Fixed the printing of the heading the same way `Verbose` did.

+ Other changes:
	- Aligned and formatted text
	- Improved some error messages.
	- Enabled transparency in `main()`.


## 0.2.4 bis
+ Added title to the window.
+ Re-enabled RNG initialization since it is used for choosing sprites.
+ Defined all static members of `Animal` and children classes as inline.
+ Added default values to most members of those classes.
+ Created a variable for debugging flags in `CMakeLists.txt`.
+ Changes to **`Cat`**:
	- Replaced the `alive` member with `health`.
	- Changed the return type of `trySetLowestID()` from `void` to `bool`.
	- Changed the return type of `getLowestID()` from `std::optional<ID>` to `ID` because the ID=255 is considered as an error value.
	- Added an empty constructor `Cat(void)` which construct a Cat with default values not listed in `catList[]`.
	- Defaulted the copy constructor ($\implies$ it doesn't register the copy in `catList[]`).
	- Added the method `copy()` which replaces the old copy constructor.
	- Added getter `getHealth()` and method `incrementHealth()`.
	- Removed `delete this` statement since it causes undefined behaviors.
	- Added check to the destructor to avoid an overflow.
	- Added `createUnlisted()` which construct a Cat instance but does not list it in `catList[]`.

+ Changes to `Dog`:
	- Added type `ID` and `index` member.
	- Added `getLowestID()` which is like its homonym in `Cat`.